Welcome to J.W. Broadcasting. Here are some highlights from this month's
program. Sharon Hall couldn't continue as a pioneer, but she still wanted to
expend herself in Jehovah's service. What did she decide to do? And what can we
learn from her experience? Many schools promote evolution as fact. Is that what
you're being taught? We'll learn how you can take a stand against this false
idea and prove to yourself that God exists. And we'll debut a new series
designed to sharpen our skills in the ministry. This is J.W. Broadcasting for
October 2021. Our theme for this month is you are especially acceptable to
Jehovah. We love Jehovah and we want to give him our best, but we want our
sacrifices to be acceptable to him. So we may strive to be involved as much as
possible in all the exciting things going on in the organization. But do you ever
feel discouraged? Perhaps even guilty or frustrated regarding your sacrifice
to Jehovah? In some cases it may be that you're so involved in so many different
aspects of the work that perhaps you're not giving adequate attention to your
spiritual, personal or family needs. Or on the other hand, it may be the
opposite situation. You may have those feelings because you cannot do as much as
you'd like to, or as much as others are doing. For example, you may have been
very involved in the work, but unexpectedly your circumstances changed because
of your health or some other calamity that came along and shut things down.
Such feelings may cause us to ask ourselves, what does Jehovah really expect of
us? Well, we're going to consider three points in our discussion. The first is
we need to set the right priorities. Second, do not compare yourselves unfavorably
with others. And third, remember what's important to Jehovah. Let's start
with our first point. Jehovah expects us to set the right priorities. But how
can we do that? Well, a scripture that's helped me is found in 2 Corinthians
chapter 8 and verse 12. Now at the time of this letter, the Christians in
Judea were facing many trials, and these trials included famine, persecution
and the plundering of their belongings. They needed relief. Now previously in
his first letter, Paul had encouraged the Corinthians to set aside funds to help
the brothers in Judea. Shortly thereafter, when Paul wrote the second inspired
letter to the Corinthians, he urged them to get their gifts ready. So now with this
context of giving, sacrificing, helping others in mind, let's read 2 Corinthians
chapter 8 and verse 12. For if the readiness is there first, it is especially
acceptable. According to what a person has, not according to what a person does
not have. Paul here is discussing sacrifices that are acceptable and sacrifices
that are unacceptable to Jehovah. What's the difference? Well, picture it this way.
Picture a young family in Corinth, a father, mother and children. The father
here is the letter from Paul being read to the congregation, and the father's
very excited. He wants to help his brothers in Judea. Now when the family gets
home, he discusses the matter with his wife. He says, we have a little money that
we've set aside to do some work on the house, and we were saving to purchase
another donkey. However, I'd like to take that money and contribute it for our
needy brothers in Jerusalem. What do you think? Would you say that is an
acceptable sacrifice? Yes, it's a sacrifice. He and his family are donating
money to help others, but it's according to what the family has. That sacrifice
would no doubt be very precious to Jehovah. You can picture how excited the
family would be to support that decision. But now let's imagine a different
family in the same congregation. This time the husband comes home and says, I
know we do not have any extra money, but I'd like to use the money that we've
set aside to feed our family for the next two weeks and donate it for the
brothers that are in need in Jerusalem. What do you think now? Would you say that
is an acceptable sacrifice? It's the same good motive, the same good cause. It may
even be the same amount of money, but is it acceptable? No. Why? It's not
according to what he has. Jehovah does not want him to take food away from his
children. Can you imagine him explaining that decision to his family? The father
has a God-given responsibility to feed his family. Paul says, just give
according to what you have. What's the lesson for us? How can this help us to
maintain balance and set the right priorities? Well, our sacrifices are
acceptable to Jehovah if we give according to what we have, but our sacrifice
would be unacceptable if we try to give beyond what we have. How can we apply
that? Well, there are certain areas that Jehovah says are non-negotiable. What
are some of those areas? One is our relationship with Jehovah. He expects us to
keep that relationship strong by making time for such important activities as
lingering in prayer, reading and meditating on God's word, attending and
participating in our meetings and having a meaningful share in the ministry. So
what we do in the way of work for the organization must never crowd out the
spiritual activities that keep us close to God. You see, that would be
unacceptable to Jehovah. Another example is our family responsibilities. Jehovah
expects us to care for our family, not only materially and physically, but also
spiritually and emotionally. So we must spend time together in family worship in
the field ministry and in recreation. That means that we must not allow our work
for the organization to interfere with the necessary time we need to care for
our family. That would be unacceptable to Jehovah. Another example is our health.
Jehovah expects us to serve him whole soul. That involves doing all our health
allows us to do. So we do all that we can to maintain our health by eating well,
getting enough sleep, exercising regularly. Well, again, we must not allow our
work for the organization to cause us to neglect our health. That would be
unacceptable to Jehovah. So do you see the point? What can help us to set the
right priorities? Well, again, remember the principle here in 2 Corinthians
chapter 8 and verse 12, Jehovah in effect says, give to me according to what you
have, not according to what you do not have. And that will be especially
acceptable to me. And we know that even though we have set the right priorities,
it's still a challenge to maintain balance. A balance is not something that
once you have it, you can just lock it in. No, it's like a tight rope walker
who constantly must recalibrate and adjust to maintain balance. The same is true
with maintaining balance in our lives. I know it's a constant process for me and
I'd guess it's just as challenging for you as well. We've had excellent
articles in our publications that help with managing our time. Here are two of
them. The April 2010 awake page seven has an article entitled 20 Ways to
Create More Time. And the February 2014 awake page six, how to invest your time
wisely. You may find these helpful to further research on how to set the
right priorities and maintain balance. A second point to help us maintain
balance is do not compare yourselves unfavorably with others. There will always be
ones doing more in their service to Jehovah than we are. And if we start comparing
ourselves to them or feel that they are more acceptable to Jehovah, this could
cause us to lose not just our balance, but our joy as well. When considering
this aspect of not comparing, I think of the prophet's Daniel Ezekiel and
Jeremiah. As you remember, these men wore contemporaries of one another, but
each had very different circumstances. At Daniel was in the court of the king
in Babylon. Yes, he had times of persecution and challenges, but overall he was
an official for the king. He received special training for his position. So he
may have had it relatively easy. Ezekiel was living among his fellow exiles in a
community by the river Kebar. Overall, things were fairly stable there. Remember
the Jews in exile had a measure of freedom. They built houses, they had children,
they settled down, developed skills in various trades. So it seems perhaps they
had a relatively stable life. Then you have Jeremiah. He was in Jerusalem. It
seems somebody was always trying to kill him. Much of the time he was either
hiding or in confinement. So here's the question. Did the differing circumstances
of their assignments mean that Jehovah loved or favored one more than the
other? Not at all. It was just an assignment. Jehovah wanted a prophet in
Jerusalem. He wanted one with the exiles in Babylon and he wanted another in
the court of the king. It was just the way the assignments fell. Now you can
imagine how a counterproductive it would have been for each of these three men
to judge his value based on his assignment or to compare himself to the other
too. It could happen. Think about it. Ezekiel and Jeremiah could have looked at
Daniel and thought, he has direct access to the king. He's living where all the
big decisions are being made. He's right in the center of it all. He can use
his influence to help Jehovah's people. What a privilege that would be. I wish I
was there. Or Daniel and Jeremiah could have looked at Ezekiel and felt
that's where they wish they were. We would have at least relative freedom with
the exiles. We'd be able to encourage our fellow worshippers of Jehovah. We
could help others learn about Jehovah. Or believe it or not Daniel and Ezekiel
could have looked at Jeremiah and thought we know things are tough but that's
where we want to be. He's on the front lines risking his life for Jehovah and
the nation. That's where the action is. Different assignments, different
circumstances, different locations. But they were all special to Jehovah. What's
the lesson? The lesson is that we must be careful that we do not compare ourselves
unfavorably with others. It is good to see if we can imitate and benefit from
the example of others. But we need to be careful that we do not begin determining
the value of what we're doing for Jehovah based on what others are doing. That
could cause us to lose our joy, lose our balance, and fall into the trap of
doing things for the wrong reasons. That brings us to our last point. Remember
what is important to Jehovah. Circumstances change in life. As mentioned in
the past, we may have been extremely busy in Jehovah's service. But because of
the world situation, that may have changed. Or other circumstances in our life
may have changed. Does that somehow change how Jehovah feels about us? No. How do
we know? What is important to Jehovah? What makes you especially acceptable to
Jehovah? Well, let's read together Acts chapter 10 verses 34 and 35. At this, Peter
began to speak, and he said, Now I truly understand that God is not partial. But in
every nation, the man who fears him and does what is right is acceptable to him.
Do it is right, obey his commandments. That's it. That's what makes us
acceptable to Jehovah. We complicate things at times and equate our
responsibilities, how we're used, where we're asked to serve, as things that define
our value. That's not how Jehovah sees things. A scripture that has helped me is
found in Ecclesiastes chapter 3 and verse 10. I have seen the occupation that God has given
to the sons of men to keep them occupied. The occupation refers to our activities, the things
we do. And Jehovah has given us work to keep us occupied. Whenever I read that, I think
of parents with their children, perhaps they take them to the beach for the afternoon.
And what do they do? They give them some toys and they let them play. Why? To keep them occupied.
And that in a way is what Jehovah does with us. You think about it. Jehovah does not need us
to do the work. Jehovah can accomplish his work without us. But he dignifies us and allows us to
have a share. He provides us with meaningful work. Know what it goes on to say in verse 13 of
Ecclesiastes chapter 3. Also that everyone should eat and drink and find enjoyment for all
his hard work. It is the gift of God. Work is a gift from Jehovah. Is it reasonable to think that
Jehovah would give a gift that stresses us out or creates hardship for us? No. He wants us to
find enjoyment in our work. We are the ones that may get too concerned with assigning rank and
priority to various privileges and locations of service where we are in the sand and what toys
we have to play with. What is important to Jehovah? Notice our final scripture in Ecclesiastes
chapter 12 and verse 13. The conclusion of the matter, everything having been heard is
fear the true God and keep his commandments for this is the whole obligation of man.
Fear Jehovah. Keep his commandments. Just serve Jehovah. Do the best that you can.
Stay balanced. Give according to what you have. Those are the important things. And if you do
them, no matter what your personal circumstances, you will remain especially acceptable to Jehovah.
Now, let's look at some situations that could challenge us to maintain balance.
In the following dramatization, notice how the two characters maintain balance.
It's okay. Take your time. So can you pine your next month? No doubt, you will experience greater joy.
Brother Choo. Brother Choo, can I have one too? Of course, just a moment please.
Brother Choo, I have many doctors appointments next month, but maybe.
Okay. Yeah. I wrote a little something that might help you when you fill it out. Oh, I see.
Here you go. Thank you. And remember, our circuit over-serve is in two months.
And only 30 hours are required that month. I see. Brother Choo. Yes, hello, brother Lee.
Hello, sister Kwan. Hello, brother Lee. Nice job covering those parts at the last minute.
Anyway, it seems like everyone is away. Hello, sister Kwan.
Can I ask you to do something? Here's what I need. Hello, sister Choo.
If you want to get something done, give it to a busy man. We can always count on you.
Hannah and I were beginning to feel overwhelmed.
Brother Choo, may I have a moment? I need your help with something.
Then Brother Kim needed help with the territories. Of course, we love being busy with theocratic work.
Yes, Brother Kim? Just a second.
It's Brother Kim calling about the territories. I'll only take a minute.
Yes, uh-huh. I see. Yes, I understand.
Okay. Sounds good.
Other more important things were beginning to suffer.
It's like doctor's appointments are my whole life now. I have so many next months
and they take forever to reschedule. How could I possibly make my time?
There's something written here. Prayerfully consider 2 Corinthians 8 12.
If the readiness is there, oh, I am ready. According to what a person has,
not according to what a person does not have.
Jehovah wanted the Israelites to sacrifice their best. But just imagine what happened if they
tried to do more than they could. I can almost hear the reaction.
Dad, where'd all the sheep go? All of them? What are we supposed to live on?
No, he didn't want them to sacrifice so much that they couldn't support their families.
I need those appointments. But maybe in two months when I don't have so many appointments
and the circuit overseer visit, I could set a goal.
We knew we were taking on too much work, but could we say no? We wanted Jehovah's view.
What's so funny? There's something I just shared with Sister Kwan. That is perfect for us too.
2 Corinthians 8 verse 12. According to what a person has, just like our financial contribution.
Exactly. Honey, would Jehovah want us to get into debt to make a huge contribution we couldn't
afford? You know, that scripture we just read. But they're Kim Seyum. Territories again?
Yes, but I'll tell him that I'll call him after family worship. We can't give what's not ours,
and we can't let our spiritual routine suffer, even for theocratic privileges.
No, this promise in the Bible. Look at this flower, isn't it beautiful?
I love this time of year. Thank you both so much for your help this month.
It's so good to find the right balance, and to know we're giving Jehovah all we can.
How did our brother and sister feel when they set priorities that were right for them?
They were not downhearted that they couldn't do more. No, they felt good knowing they were giving
Jehovah all they can give. Now let's consider a different situation. After serving as a regular
pioneer for many years, Sharon Hall couldn't continue in full-time service, but she still wanted to
give Jehovah something special. I started pioneering in 1978, straight out of school,
and then after 17 years, I had to stop because I could no longer meet the R requirement.
At one of the conventions, I saw some sisters interpreting the program into sign language,
and so I thought that even if I couldn't continue pioneering, I could do something
more in Jehovah's service by learning sign language, and so I started to do that.
Because I was deeply grateful to Jehovah for all you done for me, I resumed pioneering again
in September 2009, and then I had the added blessing of now pioneering in sign language field.
One day I met Cecilia. She suffers from a genetic syndrome called Asher's, which causes
deafness coupled with tunnel vision that can over time lead to blindness. Because of that disability,
it made her extremely shy, so it was very difficult to communicate with her. I started studying
with her in October 2009, and very quickly she started attending meetings. I would fetch her
for the meetings, and then drop her off at home afterwards. I lived about five minutes
from the Kingdom Wall, but she was 30 minutes away, and quickly I realised that she would also need
to put in effort to get to the meetings in order to make progress. Cecilia lived close to where she
could catch a taxi up to the train line, and then it would be two train journeys to get to the
Kingdom Wall. So it would take her each way an hour and a half to two hours. She also lived in a
notoriously unsafe area because of gang violence, but I knew that Cecilia was strong willed enough,
and independent enough, in spite of her, to medity and reticence, to be able to get herself to
the meetings. Cecilia was attending meetings regularly, but instead of a skirt, she wore pants to
the meeting. So I chatted to Nancy, as the stoker at the time was accompanying me to her study
most weeks, so that we could try and figure out a way of helping her to make the change she needed to
It took about a year of gently showing pictures, reviewing the Bible principles,
but eventually she did get the point. One of the weekends that she was staying over,
I went into her room and on her bed neatly laid out. It was a skirt on top, ready for the meeting.
I thanked her over at that point because finally our patience had been rewarded.
We had all of our meetings on a Saturday with a lunch break in between when we would associate,
but we noticed that Cecilia was isolating herself. To reinforce for Cecilia, the principle of act
20 verse 35, a friend came up with the good idea of helping her to bake cookies the day before
the meeting. Cecilia shyly offered the cookies to each person there during the lunch break,
and it elicited such a warm response from the brothers and sisters and friends there.
It really drove home the point for Cecilia, and it was beautiful to see her after that come
out of her shell. In July 2014, Cecilia gave her first student talk, and in that month she also
started publishing. There have been challenges, particularly learning sign language,
but even more so, getting to understand the deaf culture, the way that they think,
also financial hardships, but the challenges and the sacrifices were far outweighed by the blessings.
A day that's etched in my memory is the day that she told me she wanted to get baptized.
Cecilia has really become like a daughter to me, and I'm so proud of the enormous strides that
she made in the truth. In October 2015, she was baptized. I cried with joy that day.
I've been pioneering now for 28 years, and over that time, particularly since I started again,
and with Cecilia, many, many, many brothers and sisters in the congregation helped me,
they accompanied me to a study. They became friends with her, they took over when I went away,
I could never have done it on my own. Above all, Jehovah has helped me to cultivate
qualities like patience, self-control, humility, compassion. It was really wonderful to play a small
part, such a privilege, to help Cecilia to become part of Jehovah's family. Sharon's decision
required sacrifice, but it led to wonderful blessings for her and for Cecilia.
We hope that young witnesses have been enjoying our series My Teen Life. It features real issues
that you face today. Our next episode deals with one of life's most important questions.
Why believe in God? Have you ever asked yourself that? Even though you've been reading the Bible
and attending meetings for years, listen to your peers explain how they convinced themselves
that God does exist. So I'm sitting in a business class, and all of a sudden,
the subject of evolution comes up. When my teacher asked me why, to give the reason why I don't believe
in evolution, I remember all I could say was, it's just because I'm one of Jehovah's Witnesses,
and that's my belief. Many students actually believe, like they seem so sure that evolution
is a fact. My hands getting, or like my palms getting sweaty, and just nervous.
I felt intimidated. I just sat there. I felt paralyzed, and I couldn't defend the truth.
Why can't I explain this? I could explain why I don't suit the flag so easily. Why I don't
celebrate birthday so easily, I didn't understand why I couldn't explain this. Specific topic.
I had doubts, and I was asking myself questions like, does God really exist? Is the Bible accurate?
So that day after I came home from school, I went to my mom, and I asked her, you know, this is what
happened at school, and I need answers. I feel like I don't know what to do, especially since my
parents were not serving Jehovah. So I had to pray to Jehovah to help me.
So she sat me down at the computer. We went to JW.org, and then in the search box,
my mom told me to type in anything that was the problem, what I had questions on. So we typed
in evolution. That's when I clicked on the origin of life brochure. It just started like coming in,
like everything started clicking as if like, you know, there's a light bulb that went off.
So in one of the videos and the viewpoints on this origin of life section,
it talked about the brain and how the brain is so complex that billions and billions of neurons
are connected to one another. It amazed me so much that how because of the brain we can move our
hands, we can move our feet, we can do facial expressions, we can do so many things because of
this great part of the brain. It was, you know, the exact questions that I was having trouble
understanding, and each question I'm like, I was like, oh, I remember reading this in, you know,
one of the watchtowers with the books I was studying, but it broke it down into ways that, you know,
words that are simple for me to understand at that point. So it was almost, you know, it felt like
Jehovah was talking to me through this brochure, and it just, it felt I was like, this is what I need to
read, and that's what helped me get through it. So I thought to myself, this couldn't have been
made just by chance. It couldn't just exist by an accident. It had to be created. It had to be
designed. So I was able to go back and I went to my science class and I told my teacher, I was like,
I'm ready to explain why. So here we go again. It's physics class. It's the same topic all over
again, but this time it was different. I was able to defend my faith in Jehovah. I realized that,
you know, Jehovah always provides the answers to any topic, anything, I just have to be willing to
go and find it. Whenever I have questions about anything, I look for the answers, but first I
pray that Jehovah, and Jehovah has made it so easy for us to find the truth. I'm totally convinced
that whatever he says in the Bible, we can completely trust in it. As we saw, it's important that
you teams do more than disprove evolution. The underlying issue is whether you personally believe
in God. Use your power of reason to prove to yourself that he does exist. We're very excited to
share with you a new series. Many of us enjoy the visit of our circuit overseer, especially the way
he takes the lead in the ministry. Often the circuit overseer helps us to apply suggestions from the
faithful slave on how to better carry out our ministry. This new series features experienced
circuit overseers doing just that, helping us sharpen our skills in the disciple making work.
The series is called Iron Sharpen's Iron. In our first episode, Taylor Bourne-Shine shares
suggestions on how to effectively start conversations. Hi, I'm Taylor and this is Iron Sharpen's Iron.
Today we're going to practice how to start a conversation that could lead to a witness.
For many, this can be terrifying. Why? Well, as soon as we see someone that we'd like to talk to,
we can start to think to ourselves, what am I going to say? How am I going to give a witness or
how are they going to react? We can become so overwhelmed with anxiety or nerves, thinking about how
the conversation will end that we never even start. Here's something that we must keep in mind.
Our goal is simply to start a conversation. So if we've started a conversation, we've succeeded.
We've reached our goal. Then we can just relax and see if it leads to a witness.
The September 2018 Life and Ministry Meeting Workbook shows us how we can start a conversation
like Jesus did with the Samaritan woman in John chapter 4. So when we see someone that we would
like to talk to, we want to keep these three steps in mind. Number one, be friendly. That's it.
Just be friendly. Now we can be nervous so we can say quick prayer to Jehovah to give us courage,
but then we can give a friendly greeting. Then we can mention something that's happening
right then and there. Maybe the weather, the long line at the grocery store,
their nice car, or another genuine compliment. Jesus, when he started his conversation in verse 7 with
the Samaritan woman, he simply said, and no doubt in a friendly way, give me a drink. Step two,
let the conversation progress naturally. Don't rush it. If the conversation ends before we're
able to give a witness, it's okay. We accomplished our goal. We started a conversation.
Now we're ready to try again. Now if the conversation continues on, then we can look for an
opportunity to take step three. Make a simple expression of our faith. Seven verses after Jesus
started the conversation with the Samaritan woman, then he witnessed her. He said he had water
that imparts everlasting life. But between those two points, he didn't lecture her. He let her
talk and express herself and he listened to what she had the same. So with those three steps in
mind, now it's our turn. It's our turn to practice starting a conversation that could lead to a
witness. Now tie it in with us. We have Tais and Carolina who have joined us for a demonstration.
So where are you going to try to start your conversation today?
We are in a department store. Yes, we are in a Portuguese congregation and it's
common to hear people speak Portuguese when they're all shopping. Excellent. So you've heard the
three steps that we want to try. But first, let's see what could happen if we rushed the conversation.
Okay. Wait a little bit. I heard you speaking Portuguese. Where are you from?
Oi, I'm from Rio de Janeiro. I'm from São Paulo. How long have you been here? Just three months.
It's so hard to just, isn't it? You know, the Bible helps me so much when I moved here. I don't
want to keep you from your shopping, but you can read the Bible in Portuguese on our website.
And it has articles I know you'll find comforting. Okay, so time out. Now Tais, we know you rushed
that on purpose. But how did it make you feel when you did? Yeah, it didn't feel right to start
when it's so quickly. And I thought she wasn't expecting it. Right. And Carolina, how about
you? How did it make you feel? It started okay, but then got awkward real fast.
Right. So now maybe you can show us what it's like when the conversation will progress more
naturally. Okay. Oi, tudo bem? I heard you speaking Portuguese. Where are you from? Oi, I'm from
Rio de Janeiro. Oh, nice. I'm from São Paulo. I recognize your accent. I'm Tais. I'm Carolina.
Nice to meet you. Wow, how long have you been here? Only three months.
Well, for me, it's been three years and the first was the hardest. Yes, we finally have work,
but we are still looking for a place to live. And immigration has been harder than we thought.
Wow, I'm so sorry. Do you have family with you? My husband. We had to live our son with my mother.
I miss him so much. Wow, that's so hard. But we have to keep trusting in God. In my case,
is what got me through. I know. But I still worry when I don't know what he'll do for us.
Okay, so let's stop there. Really nice. Thank you. So Tais, where do you feel the conversation is at
at this point? Yeah, I feel like I found a good time to say something about my faith. And now
she's seeing how she feels. Nice, excellent. And Carolina, how about you? It was just a nice conversation.
So when she mentioned God was not awkward. Thank you sisters for letting us learn from your conversation.
I found that helpful. And I hope you did too. Make it your goal to start conversations with those
three steps. Be friendly. Converse naturally and find the right time to express your faith.
Practice at home or with a friend and see for yourself how iron sharpens iron.
That was a great demonstration. Future episodes of iron sharpens iron will show us more ways
to enhance our skills as ministers. Each of us wants to be a source of comfort and encouragement to
our brothers. That was the subject of a recent morning worship by brother William Turner.
Well, I think we'd agree that it's very hard warming to know that we serve a God of comfort.
And he provides us with so many reminders that highlight the need for us to encourage, strengthen,
and comfort one another, especially now and the times in which we live. Because none of us know the
full weight of what our brothers here in the Bethel family and our congregations might be facing or
dealing with. So having and showing empathy, fellow feeling towards one another is so important.
Perhaps a good example of how not to show comfort and fellow feeling is described for us by
Job's three comforters. You might recall they were so busy judging him and giving Job speeches
that they failed to take the time to understand him and to show fellow feeling. In fact, in all the
talking they did, not once do we read that they even addressed Job by name. The watchtower made
a statement regarding these comforters. It said, evidently, they view Job more as a problem
than as a person. Now, how do you think that treatment made Job feel?
Turn with me in your Bibles to Job chapter 19. And we'll listen to Job's words, Job chapter 19 verse 2.
He says, How long will you keep irritating my soul, crushing me with words? How sad? Instead of
providing encouragement and comfort, those companions only made Job feel irritated, crushed and frustrated.
What doesn't this highlight that if we don't give thoughts to our words and actions,
if we view our brother more as a problem than as a person, then we're not going to be able to
provide them with the comfort and support they may need. Perhaps we might work with or
we're in the congregation with someone that has faults or traits that bother us. And it may be
that these faults are actually legitimate causes of concern. But in our dealings with them,
if those faults are the only thing that we can see, if that's the only thing we focus on,
then it's going to be very difficult for us to see them as a faithful fellow worker of Jehovah.
More than likely all we're going to see is someone who is an obstacle or impediment to our work,
someone that is affecting or impacting our production and joy. And certainly we're not going
to feel good because now we've developed negative feelings about our brother and our brother is
likely going to feel the spirit that we give off. And how's that going to affect them? Well,
like Jehovah, likely they're going to be frustrated, irritated, and we've only added to their
anxiety. Well, obviously none of us want to have that sort of effect on our brothers. And that's
why halls words to the Thessalonians are a good example worthy of imitation. When we look at this
congregation practically from the beginning, the congregation that was established in Thessalonica,
those brothers and sisters experienced persecution. In Acts chapter 17, it mentions that
fanatical Jews stirred up mom violence, prompting the brothers to send Paul and Silas away
for their personal safety. Another issue that was affecting the congregation was that they seemingly
expressed great sorrow over losing ones of their number and death. So now you think about that.
You have the full picture here. You have a brand new congregation and they're feeling the heat and
pressure of intense persecution from the outside. And then on the inside, they're feeling the pain
of losing loved ones in death. Does that congregation in need of comfort and encouragement? Without
question. But interestingly, in the midst of all of this persecution and sadness, it was also
discovered that those Christians were dealing and struggling with some personal weaknesses.
When you look at 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, there they were counseled to abstain from fornication,
to love one another and fuller measure, to mine their own business, to work with their hands,
then chapter 5, to stay awake spiritually and to abstain from every form of wickedness
and a number of other matters that needed attention. Now, each of those matters were all legitimate
causes of concern. In fact, Paul felt this was so urgent that he sent them a second letter,
which closely followed his first. But what was Paul going to focus on? Would he focus
on the problem or the people? Turn with me please to 2 Thessalonians chapter 1. Let's
note how Paul begins this chapter, 2 Thessalonians chapter 1. And we'll read his words beginning
in verse 3. He says, we are obligated always to give thanks to God for you brothers. This is fitting
because your faith is growing exceedingly and the love of each and every one of you was increasing
toward one another. As a result, we ourselves take pride in you among the congregations of God,
because of your endurance and faith and all your persecutions and the hardships you are suffering.
How beautiful. Did you know Paul starts with specific commendation? Yes, there were problems
that needed to be addressed, but he starts with their good qualities, what they were doing right.
Can you and I do the same in our dealings with our brothers? Is that a first thinking what they're
doing wrong? What do they do right? What do we appreciate about them? Isn't it so much better to
focus on their good traits? The benefits of doing this is that it helps us to develop genuine
personal interest in our brothers, because if our brothers can sense that we truly care about them,
then it actually puts us in a better position to assist them with any matters that may need
adjustment. And what we'll find is that this personal interest can start with something as simple
as acknowledgement. You recall, Job's false comfortors didn't even address Job by name,
but the young man Elihu, when he was given the opportunity to speak, when addressing Job,
he respectfully addressed him by name. Job, chapter 33, verse 1,
Elihu begins his words by saying, Job, please, hear my words. And there were many other
verses where he used Job's personal name as well. I think we'd agree sometimes it can be so easy,
especially for us as brothers, to get into work mode, business mode, where we're just so focused
getting information, whether it's here at Bethel or in the congregation, we could completely forget
to acknowledge or even greet the brother in front of us. So what a beautiful reminder we learned
from Elihu. Now, we go back to Paul after his commendation in 2 Thessalonians, chapter 1. He
starts chapter 2 of 2 Thessalonians with the word, however. So now they're the contrast, they're
the shift in wording, and he begins to address the problem some had developed regarding a wrong
view of Christ's presence. So we learned from this that Paul did not sugarcoat or overlook
issues that needed to be addressed. He handled them, but he did it in such a way where the brothers
were still able to feel his loving care and concern. In fact, if you look in verse 13, you'll
notice he uses the word, however, again, so another shift. But this time, shifting back to words
of empathy, love, and exhortation for his brothers. Paul was convinced he had a positive conviction
that his brothers would do the right thing. So in review, if we want to be a source of comfort and
encouragement to our brothers, how important it is that we see them not as a problem, not as an
impediment to our work, but as our fellow worker. And instead of judging, we commend, showing
genuine personal interest and acknowledgement. And if there is a legitimate issue of concern,
well, we can lovingly address what needs to be addressed, but always be remembered more for our
encouragement than our counsel. And if we're able to do this, then our brothers are going to love
us for the way that we deal with them. But more importantly, our Heavenly Father, our God of
comfort, he will love us as well. In our program, we've discussed the value of setting the right
priorities. This is particularly important during our youth. When we're encouraged to give our best
years to Jehovah. As our new song reminds us, we will never regret making that a priority.
This world, trying to mold you, suddenly it was not so easy to be knocking on those doors,
but as you get solar smarter, trying to work harder, never let go of Jehovah.
The best is still in store. You have the treasure that plays in Jehovah's House.
He'll help you out. And you have so much to offer, so much to do.
Jehovah sees your faith knowing, treasures you, changes like all the trials have just begun.
Growing anxious from all of your fears, talk to God. He always listens.
And as you get wiser, find the ways you can apply the truth in your life.
Feel the joy of sacrifice and as you get taller, smarter, trying to work harder, never let go of Jehovah.
The best is still in store.
Treasure that plays in Jehovah's House.
Who did it?
In this month's program, we learn the value of maintaining balance.
We cannot let our spiritual routine suffer, even for theocratic privileges.
Sharon Hall made sacrifices to do more for Jehovah. And she received many blessings.
We saw how teens use their power of reason to prove to themselves that God exists.
And the first episode of our new series, Iron Sharpens Iron, showed how we can start conversations
by being alert for opportunities and by being friendly and kind.
Now it's time for our video postcard.
Let's visit our brothers and sisters in Madagascar.
Lying off the east coast of Africa, Madagascar is the fourth largest island in the world.
It's climate and diverse terrain. Make it a sanctuary for an amazing variety of plants and animals.
The Beobab tree is known for its barrel-shaped trunk and extraordinary longevity.
There are nine species of Beobab in the world.
Six can be found only in Madagascar.
About 40 different species of lemur live here.
Among them, the ring-tailed lemur.
And this one is called Kokaru's Sifaka.
Rice fields dot many parts of the country.
Rice is the staple food of the Malagasy people.
In Sieta Bay is Madagascar's third largest city and home to 34 congregations.
Since few in Madagascar have running water, many people can be contacted while they do their
laundry in rivers and lakes. Let's visit Tanembao Sifuni, a remote community on the southeastern
coasts. Our brothers share the good news despite frequent rain showers and the great distances they
have to walk between villages. Response to the Kingdom message is strong and many ask for a
Bible study. Here two sisters are conducting a study while others wait their turn.
Interested ones walk up to 16 kilometers or about 10 miles every week to attend meetings.
The village has no electricity. So to download big video files such as convention videos,
this elder and other brothers travel 12 hours, mainly by boat to the nearest town.
There are 32 publishers in the congregation, but on average 150 people attend weekend meetings,
40% of them children. Our dear brothers and sisters from the Tanembao Sifuni
congregation in Madagascar send their love and greetings to the worldwide brotherhood.
From the World Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses, this is JW Broadcasting.